---
layout:     post
title:      "The Scavenge & Survive Project is Born!"
date:       2013-01-20 14:52:58
categories: projects
---
**Scavenge and Survive** is a SA:MP project I've recently started work on built mainly on my soon to be release scripting framework titled SIF (Southclaw's Interactivity Framework) but I'll talk about the technical stuff further down the post.
<!--more-->
The name pretty much explains the goals in the server and it's based in San Fierro, a great setting I think with a variety of areas where different kinds of loot can be found. Loot consists of junk to useful items to even weapons. Vehicles are just as hard to find and when you do, chances are it will need fixing. Armed with a wrench, pistol, medkit and knife you will be thrown into this desolate world possibly populated by hostile players who are all after the same goals. Teaming up is encouraged but overall you can't trust anyone! Right now, the server is in an **Alpha Test** phase, meaning character resets are common, the mode restarts a lot and drastic changes to gameplay mechanics are expected. Once I am happy with the internal mechanics of the game I will shift over to **Beta Test Phase** where characters won't reset any more, new items and unique areas will be added and bugs will be fixed. The server is currently online, hosted by the awesome guys at [Empire Bay](http://forums.empire-bay.com/)! The IP address is: 84.200.83.65:7770 **Server Related** (If you're a scripter and want to know more about the internal framework used.) I started on December 24th (Yep, that's how I spent my Xmas eve!) it was because the testing of my SIF scripts were not going great with my current gamemode, I did plan a bunch of things like secret areas and a story but I felt it really didn't fit in with the rest of the server (freeroam, stunting, deathmatching, racing, minigames, etc...) so I decided to start a new server with an old concept me and a friend (Onfire559/Rimmer) developed a long time ago. The original idea was based on all the zombie movies we had seen, and the game Fallout 3. I had planned an inventory system, trading, loot spawns, small secrets and things and even the setting area (the country south of San Fierro) but it never took off because I just didn't have the scripting skills to even know how to begin the project. However, recently playing Minecraft and DayZ has sparked my motivation again after developing the Button and Item script in the summer of 2012. I decided to keep building on those two and eventually ended up with the inventory and container script. The main focus was to make these scripts as flexible as possible so every action has a callback, and a way to control way the script works through these callbacks. Doing this has made creating items super easy, I can do things that would have taken me weeks of scripting and testing in a few minutes now! After release I really hope other people can take advantage this way and work directly on the creative side of gameplay rather than having to worry too much about the internal mechanics. This script framework will be released as soon as I'm done writing the documentation of it, I want to ensure users know exactly how to use it effectively. It should be out some time after SA:MP 0.3x releases, that will also give me time to implement possible new features that 0.3x introduces (I have already added the new carrying animation for large items) The Scavenge and Survive server and SIF are available on my [GitHub](https://github.com/Southclaw) page, anyone is free to use them as long as you credit me. Things to keep in mind: I don't update the gamemode as much as SIF, and SIF is currently in a testing phase so it gets updated a lot whenever I find bugs etc. [SIF GitHub](https://github.com/Southclaw/SIF) [SS GitHub](https://github.com/Southclaw/ScavengeSurvive)
