---
layout:     post
title:      "New Minigame (And in record time!)"
date:       2013-06-30 15:00:34
categories: projects
---
A couple of weeks ago, my friend discovered a [Minecraft server mod called PropHunt](http://www.curse.com/bukkit-plugins/minecraft/tomskiesprophunt), I gave it a try and it’s really fun, it’s original home (I think) is actually Team Fortress 2 from a guy named Darkimmortal who wrote the original mod for the game. Well, I thought it was a really fun concept, but the Minecraft version was still buggy (you couldn’t actually see your own “prop" only other player’s) and me and my friends don’t really play TF2 so I decided to make my own interpretation! I started work on Wednesday, two days ago, in college! It was only a basic structure of the game but it was there nonetheless, the next day after college I pretty much wrote the entire first version that afternoon/evening and set up a GitHub repository for it too! Check out the source here: [GitHub PropHunt Repository Link](https://github.com/Southclaw/PropHunt) It’s pretty small but modular, the code is split across 5 files, the core or “master" script, player, match, map and admin. The map loading system is what I spent most of the time on (if I don’t count testing!) a map file can contain all the data required: boundaries, spawns, proplist (each map can have it’s own list of props) and soon CreateObject lines (dead easy so I focused on other things first, implementing soon though). I originally wrote it in YAML type format but then I didn’t want to make it too dependant on external scripts and I couldn’t be bothered to write my own parser for it so I just stuck with a simple static parser wrote only for this game. All in all, I was surprised at how far I got in only a couple of hours! Let me know of any ideas, submit bugs on [GitHub](https://github.com/Southclaw/PropHunt/issues), take it and modify it I really don’t mind! Would be great to see some maps created and it’s really easy too!
<!--more-->
